Release guidelines (#243)
mozilla-ion/ion-core-addon: docs/RELEASE_PROCESS.md

> # Rally Release Process

Author: @badboy any chance you could sanity-check this process to see if it makes sense and if the constraints are clear from an outsider POV?

The Rally Core Add-on requires special Firefox-only privileges and so it must use the Mozilla signing infrastructure.

> This requires Rally's main GitHub repository (`github.com/mozilla-ion/ion-core-addon`) to be cloned to the `github.com/mozilla-extensions` organization, and have a working `.taskcluster.yml` file in the repository. It is important to note that this must be a clone and not a fork, otherwise the signing infrastructure will not work.

Reviewer: I don't understand this paragraph at all.
Is this something that needs to re-happen for every release or will there be a repository under mozilla-extensions that gets pushed to?
The differentation between "clone" and "fork" is not clear here, I guess a "fork" in the sense of GitHub where it explicitly marks it as forked from this repo?

At best you want to start this document with at least one sentence explaining what the content will be.
Something a la "Rally will be shipped as a web extensions, with special Firefox-only privileges. [...] In order to enable Firefox-specific privileges it requires a signature done on Mozilla infrastructure"

Author: > Is this something that needs to re-happen for every release or will there be a repository under mozilla-extensions that gets pushed to?

Thanks for going through this! There is a repository under [`mozilla-extensions`](https://github.com/mozilla-extensions/ion-core-addon/) against which we need to open PRs to have the addons signed.

> The differentation between "clone" and "fork" is not clear here, I guess a "fork" in the sense of GitHub where it explicitly marks it as forked from this repo?

Yes, "fork" in the sense of GitHub. I will link to the [GitHub Glossary](https://docs.github.com/en/free-pro-team@latest/github/getting-started-with-github/github-glossary#fork) to make it clearer.

> At best you want to start this document with at least one sentence explaining what the content will be.
> Something a la "Rally will be shipped as a web extensions, with special Firefox-only privileges. [...] In order to enable Firefox-specific privileges it requires a signature done on Mozilla infrastructure"

Will do!

The development & release process roughly follows the [GitFlow model](https://nvie.com/posts/a-successful-git-branching-model/).

> **Note:** The rest of this section assumes that `upstream` points to the `https://github.com/mozilla-ion/ion-core-addon` repository,
> `origin` points to the developer fork and `mozext` refers to `https://github.com/mozilla-extensions/ion-core-addon`.
> For some developer workflows, `upstream` can be the same as `origin`.

**Table of Contents**:

* [Published artifacts](#published-artifacts)
* [Standard release](#standard-release)
* [Hotfix release for latest version](#hotfix-release-for-latest-version)
* [Hotfix release for previous version](#hotfix-release-for-previous-version)

## Published artifacts

* A QA-signed version of the Firefox Rally Core Add-on (**only meant for QA**).

> * A Mozilla-signed version of the Firefox Rally Core Add-on (**TODO**).

Author: I filed https://github.com/mozilla-ion/ion-core-addon/issues/242 for the TODO here.

    2. Enter `v<myversion>` as the tag. It's important this is the same as the version you specified to the `prepare_release.sh` script, with the `v` prefix added.
    3. Select the `release` branch as the target.
     4. Under the description, paste the contents of the release notes from `CHANGELOG.md`.
5. Wait for the CI build to complete for the tag.
    * You can check [on CircleCI for the running build](https://circleci.com/gh/mozilla-ion/ion-core-addon).
6. Send a pull request to merge back the specific release branch to the development branch: <https://github.com/mozilla-ion/ion-core-addon/compare/master...release-v25.0.0?expand=1>
    * This is important so that no changes are lost.
    * This might have merge conflicts with the `master` branch, which you need to fix before it is merged.
7. Once the above pull request lands, delete the specific release branch (e.g. `release-v25.0.0`).
8. Mirror the release branch and the release tag on the signing repository:
    ```
    git fetch upstream
    git push mozext release
    git push mozext v25.0.0
    ```

> 9. Trigger the signing process by sending a pull request to merge back the specific release branch to the development branch: <https://github.com/mozilla-extensions/ion-core-addon/compare/master...release?expand=1>

Reviewer: What happens to this PR? Is it merged or closed when the build is done?

Author: Is merged without deleting the `release` branch.

>     * This should never have conflicts with `master` branch: no change should ever happen on this repository outside from the mirroring and merging.

Reviewer 2: +1

    1. The new version should be the next patch version of what is currently released.
    2. Let it create a commit for you.
4. Push the hotfix branch:
    ```
    git push upstream hotfix-v25.0.1
    ```
5. Create a local hotfix branch for bugfixes:
    ```
    git checkout -b bugfix hotfix-v25.0.1
    ```
5. Fix the bug and commit the fix in one or more separate commits.
6. Push your bug fixes and create a pull request against the hotfix branch: <https://github.com/mozilla-ion/ion-core-addon/compare/hotfix-v25.0.1...your-name:bugfix?expand=1>
7. When that pull request lands, wait for CI to finish on that branch and ensure it's green:
    * <https://circleci.com/gh/mozilla-ion/ion-core-addon/tree/hotfix-v25.0.1>

### Finish a hotfix branch

When CI has finished and is green for your hotfix branch, you are ready to cut a release, similar to a normal release:

1. Check out the main release branch:
    ```
    git checkout release
    ```
2. Merge the hotfix branch:
    ```
    git merge --no-ff hotfix-v25.0.1
    ```
3. Push the main release branch:
    ```
    git push upstream release
    ```
4. Tag the release on GitHub:

>     1. [Draft a New Release](https://github.com/mozilla/glean/releases/new) in the GitHub UI (`Releases > Draft a New Release`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. [Draft a New Release](https://github.com/mozilla-ion/ion-core-addon/releases/new) in the GitHub UI (`Releases > Draft a New Release`).
```

    ```
4. Tag the release on GitHub:
    1. [Draft a New Release](https://github.com/mozilla-ion/ion-core-addon/releases/new) in the GitHub UI (`Releases > Draft a New Release`).
    2. Enter `v<myversion>` as the tag. It's important this is the same as the version you specified to the `prepare_release.sh` script, with the `v` prefix added.
    3. Select the support branch (e.g. `support/v24.0`) as the target.
    4. Under the description, paste the contents of the release notes from `CHANGELOG.md`.
5. Wait for the CI build to complete for the tag.
    * You can check [on CircleCI for the running build](https://circleci.com/gh/mozilla-ion/ion-core-addon).
6. Send a pull request to merge back the specific release branch to the development branch: <https://github.com/mozilla-ion/ion-core-addon/compare/master...support/v24.0?expand=1>
    * This is important so that no changes are lost.
    * This might have merge conflicts with the `master` branch, which you need to fix before it is merged.
7. Mirror the release branch and the release tag on the signing repository:
    ```
    git fetch upstream
    git push mozext support/v24.0
    git push mozext v24.0
    ```

> 8. Trigger the signing process by sending a pull request to merge back the specific release branch to the development branch: <https://github.com/mozilla-extensions/ion-core-addon/compare/master...support/v24.0?expand=1>

Reviewer: As above

    * This is important so that CI runs the signing process.
    * This should never have conflicts with `master` branch: no change should ever happen on this repository outside from the mirroring and merging.
    * The `dep-signing-ion_core` task will produce a QA-signed build of the add-on on TC. Click on `Details`, then `View task in Taskcluster`. Click the `Artifacts` section to find a link to the signed XPI, e.g. `public/build/ion_core.xpi`. Save it to disk and then add it as an attachment named `qa-ion_core.xpi` to the `v24.0` release.
    * Merge the PR once the build is done.
7. Once the above pull request lands, delete the specific hotfix branch (e.g. `support/v24.0`) from both `mozext` and `upstream`.
8. Refer to [Producing a production-signed extension](#producing-a-production-signed-extension) to build the officially signed add-on.

## Producing a production-signed extension

> Production signing requires sign-off from addons and releng.

Author: We need to expand this and document exactly what's required of us. I filed https://github.com/mozilla-ion/ion-core-addon/issues/242 .

Reviewer 2: Yes, I know more about this process now than I did when starting this document. I'll follow up over in #242.

Reviewer 2: Do you want to link to https://github.com/mozilla-extensions/xpi-manifest/blob/master/docs/releasing-a-xpi.md#kicking-off-the-release also?

Author: Good call! I'm adding this.

> See the #addon-pipeline channel on Slack for assistance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See the `#addon-pipeline` channel on Slack for assistance.
```
